now that we've come off the burst
starter in the end the sail prep we're
talking about pigs in the O 60 to 100
pound range and it's really important
that that we try to get these young pigs
of D thoroughly dewormed you know worms
are our silent problem in the show pig
industry have been for a number of years
I think it's one of the areas that
perhaps we as feeders often overlook we
get busy and and we don't rigidly follow
a strategic deworming program but but
certainly early in those pigs lives it's
important that we then would get those
pigs thoroughly D worms so that that's
not one of the factors that that can
hinder development as we try to get
those pigs moving forward and maximizing
their genetic potential following the
the sale prep or the burst whichever
product you come off of and about that
sixty pound range I think it's really
important that we that we run about ten
to twelve days worth of the eleven 1:48
feed through those pigs that's a product
that contains fin bindas all let's not
get set back there and overlook the
importance of deworming those young pigs
thoroughly because we really want to
launch them down a path of gain and
development and maximize that early
skeletal growth and development in these
young show pigs at that point you really
very much need to know the genetics that
you're feeding and kind of get a game
plan as to how you're gonna feed those
young show pigs and and as you're gonna
do throughout the the feeding process
you know you're gonna need to develop
our own excuse me you're gonna need to
analyze those hogs throughout the
feeding process and in the two areas
primarily that we can affect
in maximized genetic potential of those
hogs in it and that's muscle and fat
composition of those hogs those are the
two main areas that we need to analyze
at all times know these young developing
pigs in that sixty to a hundred pound
range again I want to get them developed
as best possible but we don't want to
get those pigs too heavy muscle at that
young developing age I think with
today's genetics we have a lot of heavy
muscle hogs out there we get pushing
these hogs too hard and get too much
muscle in these young developing show
pigs I think personally that that lends
to a lot of joint issues and these these
as these young hogs don't have their
joints fully developed we start laying
on a lot of masses these jobs of trying
to grow versus just trying to get some
skeletal growth and bring mass later I
think you really compound some of those
joint issues so you have to make a
decision we have a couple of products
that after the 11 148 that I really like
to position if you have a hog that that
needs to come on with a little more
muscle there early
the 10-1 94 product which is a 20%
protein is it would be the product of
choice and then from there although you
know a lot of people will make
recommendations based on weights really
it's in the eye of the feeder as to what
feed you need to be feeding because of
again we're just basically analyzing
muscle and fat composition in these pigs
and making those rational its
accordingly
now if the Hogs about right in terms of
his muscle development without question
the 18 to 41 product is is the product
that I feel you need to be feeding at
that sixty to a hundred pound weight
range that's a product that it really
allows those hogs to to develop their
natural muscle that they're genetically
programmed to have without really
pushing hard at them they eat it
extremely well their average daily gain
is very good on this feed
and it just kind of helps those hogs uh
kind of naturally develop in terms of
their shape and muscle and so that's
product that that I find myself a lot of
times going to with these heavy muscle
genetics coming right off the the eleven
148 probably more so than the ten 194 to
be honest nowadays so you know that's
that's key just to analyze those picks
from a muscle standpoint primarily in
that sixty two hundred pound range one
of the things that I've do caution in
that weight range is is to not feed too
much fat in these young pigs additional
fat supplementation on top of these
rations can be detrimental actually to
the growth and development of these show
pigs it contends lowdown if they if they
will consume and get too much energy
they'll get satisfied they won't even
eat as much feed as they probably should
have to go ahead and gain and develop so
found myself in that situation at time
or two as well and so I would reserve
that additional fat supplementation till
later
you